hi I'm Arlo leach the creator of the
setlist maker app and now the band
helper website and app I created band
helper to reduce some of the
time-consuming tasks of organizing a
band one task the band helper addresses
is distributing your repertoire to all
of your bandmates in my band I maintain
a master list of all our songs but I
also make individual set lists for
different shows I also make a lead sheet
for each song and I have to distribute
those and then each time I update a lead
sheet I have to distribute a new copy
and my beyond learned songs from
reference recordings so that means I
have to burn CDs or get everybody hooked
up to a file-sharing service to
distribute those files it's a lot of
work for me and it relies on my
bandmates keeping track of all the
materials I've given them band helper
makes this easier by putting all these
materials into one online account that
my bandmates can access through a web
browser or through a mobile device
let's take a look after logging into
band helper you can click the repertoire
button to see a list of all your songs
click the Add button and you'll see that
songs have fields for key time signature
tempo and more so you can easily keep
track of all this info
you can even create custom fields for
info that band helper doesn't already
track and each band member can have
their own custom fields for things that
only apply to them
like what guitar they use for a song
once you've entered your songs there are
a couple ways to generate song lists if
you want to view all your songs sort in
different ways you can click smart lists
and choose from several predefined lists
you can also make your own custom lists
first click set lists then click the
add' button enter a name for your list
and click Save then click songs and add
songs your complete song list appears
and you can select the songs you want to
add to the list
after adding the songs you can drag and
drop to rearrange them and then click
Save again and now your setlist appears
on the set lists page and anytime you
want to update it you can go back to the
songs button and make more changes now
band helper really becomes useful when
you load in all the documents and
recordings that you want to share with
your bandmates
let's click documents first and add a
couple documents
I've got some lead sheets here that I've
made for each song and saved in PDF
format
you can do this one at a time or if you
have a lot of documents to load at once
you can zip them together and do a batch
import using this button next let's add
a couple recordings
these are mp3s of the original
recordings that my band uses when
learning new songs these will take
longer to upload because the file sizes
are larger
now that we have some documents and
recordings loaded into our account we
can attach them to our songs we'll go
back to the songs list then click the
edit button for a song then click the
add documents button and select from the
list then we'll do the same with
recordings then we'll save the song and
now wherever this song appears in band
helper it will have a document and a
recording icon next to it so you can
easily view those files
we've been looking at the band helper
website so far because that's often the
easiest way to load in your data but you
can also view and edit your data from a
mobile device using the band helper app
any data you enter into the website or
any of your Bands mobile devices is
automatically synced to all the others
so let's open up the app on this iPad
and look for our setlist there are the
songs we added along with the document
and recording icons and now we can view
the document or play the recording on
this device since band helper is based
on the setlist maker app it includes all
the onstage functionality of setlist
makers perform window document zooming
auto scrolling MIDI messages remote
control but the bottom line is the band
helper gives you an easy way to manage
your repertoire and distribute those
resources automatically to your band
it's been a time-saver for my bands and
I hope it helps you too